okay I'm back in this video I want to
talk about when you're ready to file
intellectual property when you're ready
to protect your inventions what should
you do and who should you find to
protect those watch this video and I
will save you a lot of Heartache this is
Stephen key
[Music]
before we get started I have to make a
disclaimer I am not a patent attorney
and I'm not giving you legal advice what
I'm giving you during this video is
practical business advice and how to
protect your intellectual property all
right I'm going to start out by saying
I've been through this process for years
and years and years about protecting my
ideas and using patterns and using
patent attorneys and I have to tell you
there's things that you need to watch
out for here's the first thing and I
wrote down I have a lot of notes there
number one if any patent attorney
is selling fear by telling you that hey
you better do something fast someone's
going to do it before you run from that
patent attorney that is number one
number two what I want you to do when
you find maybe a patent attorney that
you want to work with ask them about
their process of billing get a budget
ask it what is it going to cost through
this whole process and make sure they
give you really good advice in terms of
this is what it's going to cost and make
sure they do include office actions
that's right they never include office
actions because those can get really
expensive what is it office Action Real
Simple when you file a non-provisional
patent application it goes to the USPTO
a year and a half later that office that
Pat examer sends back a rejection a
rejection letter he rejects your
application
because of this this prior art that's
called an office action you are
typically going to probably get about
three of those things it's awful they're
very expensive and when you get one you
guys you're gonna freak out but realize
for your patent attorney or patent agent
regardless when they respond back to an
office action it's going to cost you
anywhere from twenty five hundred
dollars to thirty five hundred dollars
and when you have three you're spending
close to another ten thousand dollars so
be aware that if they don't include that
in the price of what it's going to take
run from that patent attorney or patent
agent
all right the next thing I want you to
watch out for
ask your the person you're going to work
with patent attorney or patent agent
what do you do with office actions okay
do you do you write a reply back or do
you do interviews the best thing you
want to do and make sure that person has
a great track record conducting
interviews at the with the patent
examiner at the USPTO those interviews
that's a way for that patent attorney to
talk to that examiner and get your
patent issued because they're talking
about it if you're the guy the person
you want to work with that patent
examiner I mean that patent agent or
that patent attorney if they want to not
have an interview that's a red flag for
me because those interviews allow you to
find out exactly what you need to do to
get that patent issued so make sure they
love doing the interviews okay next
your patent attorney
if when you first start out you want to
make sure you have a new and novel idea
so you might want to do a pad search
what do you mean you might you have to
do a patent search
if your patent attorney conducts your
patent search for you in my opinion
there it is in my opinion that's wrong
right they shouldn't be doing that those
searching you should have an independent
third party do the search I think it's a
conflict if you're asking your pan
attorney to see if there's any other
pads out there that conflict with yours
because they want your business I don't
like it have an independent third party
do that worldwide patent search for you
and if they don't do that if they want
to do it themselves or don't want to do
it at all find a different person all
right here's another one
ask them what is their success rate of
getting patents issued that's perfectly
fine hey you follow a lot of patents
what's your success rate they should be
able to provide that information for you
to see if the guy's any good all right
the other thing that you want to make
sure is ask them
about in fact read a pat do this ask
them about their success rate but also
read one of their patents that they have
written before
and if you cannot understand it find
another patent attorney it has to be in
such it has to be done such a way that's
easy for people to read that could be a
potential licensee that could be an
investor that could even be the patent
examiner or who else if it's not easy to
read and understand it's confusing find
someone else
please realize
the people that are writing these
applications they have an engineering
background doesn't mean they're great
communicators so make sure it's easy to
understand
okay what else should you watch out for
yes here's the biggest one
if you reach out to a patent attorney or
patent agent and they want you to file a
non-provisional patent application
not not a provisional patent application
but a non-provisional patent application
that's like a real patent now
run
you see this whole process at the very
beginning for us inventors is to test
the market we don't have all the
information we're going to make some
changes
because we're just starting out to see
if we have a really good idea so filing
a provisional patent application is very
inexpensive you can do it for yourself
or you can have them do it for you right
but if they tell you oh no no no you
should file a non-provisional patent
application they're doing you a
disservice in my opinion what that
basically means instead of paying maybe
two thousand dollars you might be paying
twenty five thousand dollars it's a
wrong move because you're going to be
making some changes I can guarantee it
and if you file for a patent too early
and you have to make changes guess what
you have to file another one so it's
ridiculous watch out for those guys if
your patent attorney is running ads
that's right I said it I'm going to say
running ads
I would not
I would look for somebody else or or get
referrals at least good patent attorneys
don't have to run ads they don't have to
do that because they're doing good work
they get referrals so be careful of
these so-called great patent attorneys
that are going to help you with your
great idea all right so what do I mean
you guys it's really simple you have to
do all these things make sure when
you're working with the patent attorney
you give them good information because
they're only as good as the information
you're providing them so what does that
mean if you have a prototype fantastic
know it works and what doesn't work if
you have marketing material that knows
your point of difference compared to
similar ideas let your patent attorney
see that marketing material he'll know
what's important to protect know all the
similar products that are out there on
the market so you know why yours is
different and you've designed it that
way and make sure you do some type of
worldwide patent search to overcome
prior patents that are that are going to
get in your way from those patent
examiners ask your patent attorney for
referrals make sure you can read their
stuff that is clear and concise and you
get it and they do include office
actions and the total cost of this whole
process and don't let them sell fear all
right this is Stephen key thank you for
watching this video I'm looking forward
to doing the next one subscribe down
below we're trying to hit 70 000
subscribers and you can help me do it
once again I'll see you next time
[Music]
thank you